---
layout: post
title: GSoC'24 Week 8
date: 2024-06-30 00:00:00 # The blog will be posted at exactly this time and date (based on the US time mostly)
description: C++ backend for Splay Trees done! Started working on implementing a C++ backend for AVL Trees.
tags: GSoC'24
categories: Weekly_Blogs
featured: true
---

##### `[June 24 - June 30]`

## I'm Co..ding ding ding ding!
Incase you are wondering what the heading means, I'm emphasising the joy I get by coding all day. Its been 2 months since I started my `Google Summer of Code` project, and it has been an amazing and a rewarding journey. Cheers to another productive month of GSoC 2024.

---
### <ins>Coding info</ins>


This week, I finished coding up the `C++ backend for Splay Trees`. The following methods were implemented:
- `SplayTree_split()`
- `SplayTree_join()`
- `SplayTree_preorder()`
- `SplayTree_search()`

Comprehensive tests were added and I ensured that all of them passed. 

Next, I started working on implementing a `C++ backend for AVL Trees`. In this week, I implemented the following functions:
- `AVLTree_left_height()`
- `AVLTree_right_height()`
- `AVLTree_balance_factor()`
- `AVLTree__right_rotate()`
- `AVLTree__left_right_rotate()`
- `AVLTree__right_left_rotate()`
- `AVLTree__left_rotate()`
- `AVLTree__balance_insertion()`
- `AVLTree_insert()`

### <ins>Relevant PRs:</ins>

PR for C++ backend for Splay Trees (merged): [#562](https://github.com/codezonediitj/pydatastructs/pull/562)

PR for C++ backend for AVL Trees (work in progress): [#564](https://github.com/codezonediitj/pydatastructs/pull/564)

In the following week, I will continue adding more functionality to the C++ backend of AVL Trees.

### <ins>Learnings/Difficulties</ins>

Just one line: Patience and determination lead to resolution of bugs and segfaults.

<br>
Thanks to my mentor, [Gagandeep Singh](https://github.com/czgdp1807), for his support throughout.

See you again after an amazing week! 😊