---
layout: post
title: GSoC'24 Week 5
date: 2024-06-09 00:00:00 # The blog will be posted at exactly this time and date (based on the US time mostly)
description: PyCon'24 proposal submitted and Self Balancing Binary Trees done!
tags: GSoC'24
categories: Weekly_Blogs
featured: true
---

##### `[June 03 - June 09]`

## PyCon'24 proposal submitted and Self Balancing Binary Trees done!

---
### <ins>Coding info</ins>

This week, I started and completed the C++ backend for Self Balancing Binary Tree class. The methods are:
- `left_rotate()`
- `right_rotate()`
- `left_right_rotate()`
- `right_left_rotate()`

Along with this, **I submitted my proposal for a talk at PyCon'24**. If accepted, I will be presenting my work done in PyDataStructs as a part of Google Summer of Code 2024 at PyCon 2024, Bengaluru. Sounds exciting!

PyCon'24 Proposal: [Unleashing Python's Power: Lightning-fast speed with a C++ Backend](https://in.pycon.org/cfp/2024/proposals/unleashing-pythons-power-lightning-fast-speed-with-a-c-backend~erkXw/)

Slides for the talk: [Link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1K2DjwfJOrBZaMIlv5abQHZR0jxxO2yBE/view)

Moreover, I started working on `RedBlackTrees` class. I have finished all helper methods for insert() and the `insert()` method, which passes all the test cases and works correctly for all different conditions.

I have added support for all tree traversals to the RedBlackTree class. These include: 
 - `pre_order`
 - `in_order`
 - `post_order`
 - `out_order`
 - `depth_first_search`
 - `breadth_first_search`

**OOPS concepts used greatly helped here. I can reuse the base code written for tree traversals in any tree data structure.**

### <ins>Relevant PRs:</ins>

PR for Self Balancing Binary Trees (which has been merged): [#559](https://github.com/codezonediitj/pydatastructs/pull/559)

PR for RedBlackTrees (work in progress): [#560](https://github.com/codezonediitj/pydatastructs/pull/560)

In the following week, I will continue working on the `RedBlackTree` class and add more functionality to its C++ backend. It includes methods like `delete()` and various helper methods required to handle all cases of deleting from the RedBlackTree. Following this, I will start implementing the next tree data structure: Binary Indexed Trees and it's algorithms.

### <ins>Learnings/Difficulties</ins>

This week, I felt confident and coded really fast, but at the same time, I ensured that the quality of code was not compromized. I have now learned to identify possible bugs and segfaults at the time of writing code itself, this has greatly increased my efficiency. I have mastered OOPS concepts and they have helped me greatly. For example, I can reuse the base code written for tree traversals in any tree data structure!

I also learned to make an amazing proposal for a talk at PyCon'24 and prepared an outline for a talk of 30 minutes, with slides, to present at the conference.

<br>
Thanks to my mentor, [Gagandeep Singh](https://github.com/czgdp1807), for wonderful guidance for GSoC and helping me design an amazing talk for PyCon'24.

See you again after a productive week! 😊